Closes #295 template documentation@devel (#300)
pharmaverse/admiraldev: vignettes/package_extensions.Rmd

Reviewer: this `dyn_link` is to help with making the links in the README.md and the front page of the packgedown site - since this is now a pkgdown article/user guide all of these links should have the dyn_link removed as we don't do it this way in the other user guides.

Reviewer: I like how detailed this is, but I feel like we need a highlights section or some type of graphic included.  perhaps a later issue, but it is a wall of text that is pretty hard to look at.

---
title: "Package Extensions"
output: 
  rmarkdown::html_vignette
    
vignette: >
  %\VignetteIndexEntry{Package Extensions}
  %\VignetteEngine{knitr::rmarkdown}
---

```{r setup, include = FALSE}
knitr::opts_chunk$set(
  collapse = TRUE,
  comment = "#>"
)

link <- function(text, url) {
  return(
    paste0(
      "[", text, "]",
      "(", url, ")"
    )
  )
}

dyn_link <- function(text,
                     base_url,
                     relative_url = "",
                     # Change to TRUE when admiral adopts multiversion docs
                     is_multiversion = TRUE,
                     multiversion_default_ref = "main") {
  url <- paste(base_url, relative_url, sep = "/")
  if (is_multiversion) {
    url <- paste(

>       base_url,

Reviewer: I thought this stuff was just for the readme?

Author: Sorry, you are probably right. As you know the text in this page was originally copied from the admiraltemplate README and I needed this `dyn_link` stuff for it to work - do you know how i should be linking to other pages instead? At the moment if I removed this entirely, calls such as the one on line 63 fail. Thanks.

Reviewer 2: fine to remove this section and update any links mentioned below to just use the main release website links, now that this is in admiraldev is the first in the dependency chain

Author: updated links, thank you

      relative_url,
      sep = "/"
    )
  }
  return(link(text, url))
}

# Other variables
admiral_homepage <- "https://pharmaverse.github.io/admiral"
admiraldev_homepage <- "https://pharmaverse.github.io/admiraldev"
admiralci_homepage <- "https://pharmaverse.github.io/admiralci"
```

## Introduction

`{admiral}` is made up of a family of packages and we foresee this only growing over time to cover more specific areas such as TA (Therapeutic Area) package extensions, with a wider range of companies and individuals getting on board to join development efforts. This step-by-step guidance talks through our recommendations on how new development teams would go about creating such package extensions. It is critical that this guidance is followed, as our users need to feel a consistent experience when working across `{admiral}` packages. If an `{admiral}` package extension doesn't follow these conventions then we wouldn't include it under pharmaverse and as part of the `{admiral}` family.

## Step-by-step Guidance to Create a Package Extension
_Note: The ordering numbers below are suggested but don't all need to strictly be followed in this sequence._

> 1. Raise the need for a new `{admiral}` package extension with the sponsors (Ross Farrugia ross.farrugia@roche.com & Ben Arancibia benjamin.c.arancibia@gsk.com). The naming convention needs to be `{admiralxxx}` and we request that the scope is not targeted overly narrow, for example instead of a package extension for HIV we'd prefer one across virology. Otherwise the number of packages may become unmanageable.

Reviewer: I think this might need to change to Dean Grundy.

Author: Yes sounds good, do you have an email please?

Reviewer: On second thought - why not just asked them to reach out to the slack channel and remove the emails.  

Or ask them to reach out to the package maintainer - but not provide the name. 

Just trying to not have to update this section if roles change, people move on, etc.

Reviewer 2: yes that works! any of us could then pick up such requests and follow up.
@bms63 please add Dean to our future sponsors/leads meetings if that gets confirmed. i spoke to him a while back and we worked together for years before at Roche so great to collaborate again if so

Author: Agree, changed.

1. Agree on a charter and expectations of each company, e.g. we usually ask for at least 3 developers with at least 25% capacity and a mix of R, GitHub and TA experience. Within the charter make sure the scope and timelines are clear. _It is important here not to try to boil the ocean. Focus first on the very common endpoints required as a foundation and then the package can build up from here via contributions from both the co-development companies and also the wider across-industry admiral community. If useful, the `{admiralonco}` charter could be shared as a guide._

> 1. Each company should start to identify the required developer resources. Then each developer is required to complete the `{admiral`} [dummy issue for onboarding](https://github.com/pharmaverse/admiral/issues/1839), as well as reading up on the `{admiral}` `r dyn_link("site", admiral_homepage)` - especially the developer guides, which all need to be followed for package extensions.
> 1. Optionally it can be useful to host a kick-off meeting to decide how the team will work, for which we recommend agile/scrum practices.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Each company should start to identify the required developer resources. Then each developer is required to complete the `{admiral`} [dummy issue for onboarding](https://github.com/pharmaverse/admiral/issues/1839), as well as reading up on the [admiraldev](https://pharmaverse.github.io/admiraldev/devel/) - especially the developer guides, which all need to be followed for package extensions.
1. Optionally it can be useful to host a kick-off meeting to decide how the team will work, for which we recommend agile/scrum practices.
```

Author: implemented, thank you

> 1. Set up a "admiralxxx_dev" channel on Slack to add all team members to for informal team chat, and agree a way to share working documents across the co-development team. 

Reviewer 2: suggest PHUSE MS teams now? seems most companies can access this

Author: updated, thanks.

1. Plan any future further enhancements and make issues. When your team feels ready you can open up to development contributions for these from the wider community - see `r dyn_link("this page", admiral_homepage, "CONTRIBUTING.html#type-1-contribution-with-code")`. Please use the _"good first issue"_ (ideal for new starters) & _"help wanted"_ (ideal for more experienced contributors) issue labels.

**Note**: the core `{admiral}` team will carry out periodic reviews of of the extension package contents to ensure nothing is duplicated and  ensure standards and best practices are followed. The frequency of these reviews is to be agreed upon by the technical leads of the core and extension packages. 

## Lessons Learned

These are some of the lessons learned from previous package extensions:

* Since ADaM is conceived as TA-agnostic, and TA standards can widely differ across companies, TA package extensions shouldn't contain many new functions. That is, most functionality required to create and ADaM should be present in `{admiral}`, with localized and limited exceptions for truly TA-specific variables/endpoints. As such, _the R folder in package extensions should be relatively lean_!

> * Connected to the above, a package extension is more than just R functions - it is also vignettes, examples and test data. In fact, these are just as important as the R functions itself, because that is what the users will turn to for guidance. 

Reviewer 2: add `templates`, and remove `test data` - as think that'd confuse with pharmaversesdtm/adam

Author: updated, thanks.

1. Agree on a charter and expectations of each company, e.g. we usually ask for at least 3 developers with at least 25% capacity and a mix of R, GitHub and TA experience. Within the charter make sure the scope and timelines are clear. _It is important here not to try to boil the ocean. Focus first on the very common endpoints required as a foundation and then the package can build up from here via contributions from both the co-development companies and also the wider across-industry admiral community. If useful, the `{admiralonco}` charter could be shared as a guide._

> 1. Each company should start to identify the required developer resources. Then each developer is required to complete the `{admiral`} [dummy issue for onboarding](https://github.com/pharmaverse/admiral/issues/1839), as well as reading up on the [admiraldev documentation](https://pharmaverse.github.io/admiraldev/main/index.html), - especially the developer guides, which all need to be followed for package extensions.

Reviewer 2: admiraldev links usually use `devel` version as default as we always want people to refer to the very latest guidance so update link to https://pharmaverse.github.io/admiraldev/devel/index.html

Reviewer 2: same comment throughout for any other occurrences

Author: updated

1. Optionally it can be useful to host a kick-off meeting to decide how the team will work, for which we recommend agile/scrum practices.

> 1. Set up a "admiralxxx_dev" channel on Slack to add all team members to for informal team chat, and agree a way to share working documents across the co-development team. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Set up a "admiralxxx_dev" channel on Slack to add all team members to for informal team chat, and agree a way to share working documents across the co-development team. We recommend to use a new folder on the pharmaverse MS teams - Michael Rimler (michael.s.rimler@gsk.com) could help with this as our rep on the PHUSE board.
```

> 1. Set up a folder on the [pharmaverse admiral MS Teams site](https://teams.microsoft.com/l/team/19%3a5gA-caRueo_CpnVwIlr6EdZVgGkNcn0EIBFD8l5Fz3Q1%40thread.tacv2/conversations?groupId=4bae92df-b2ca-4069-b52a-fe1f8e6244c5&tenantId=2e09e1c5-5c3d-4bca-97c4-573a5695f550) for file sharing - please contact Michael Rimler (michael.s.rimler@gsk.com) for help with this.

Reviewer 2: i would delete this in favour of what i added above - the link wouldn't work for people without access anyway, so Michael would get them on to this

Author: updated
